# Content-Aware-Streaming
Adaptive bitrate streaming is widely used and is projected to continue to grow as video streaming makesup an increasing fraction of the global internet traffic. One of the fastest growing trends is the increasein the number of mobile users.  These users increasingly expect fast and high-quality media content to bestreamed to them. To facilitate this demand, current methods include adaptive bitrate to dynamically deliversuitable video quality streams for the client’s available bandwidth. Another field where adaptive bitrate isimportant is in video surveillance, which is applied by individuals, companies, and authorities to remotelymonitor certain areas in real-time.  However, congestion or low bandwidth usually results in degradedvideo quality to avoid stalling degradation that has the biggest negative impact on Quality of Experience. In these cases, those who monitor such streams would lose the fine-grained detail necessary for interpretingthe  context  and  making  well-informed  decisions.   The  reduced  quality  of  such  streams  impedes  on  theusability of the delivered content.

In reaction to this, we present a content-aware extension to modern adaptive bitrate techniques that canbe used to preserve images of faces when the connection speed is slow.  The project focuses on preservingframes with faces to demonstrate the potential gains in using content-aware streaming in a setting wherethe content-of-interest generally takes up a smaller fraction of the whole frame, and because the task ofidentifying the face is a well-researched area.

We have developed a program that analyzes the contents of a video stream to apply automatic facedetection  and  extracts  areas  where  faces  are  detected  to  output  them  in  their  original  quality  as  a  facestream.  We have converted the video stream to reduce the quality of the background stream, developedanother program to composite the face stream and background stream and display the resulting stream,and yet another program to compare the quality of the face stream to the original and background streams.Lastly, we have measured the performance of the programs and the bitrates for the different video streams.Based on this,  we show that when the fraction of the overall frame occupied by faces is small,  we canpreserve the quality of these faces without increasing the required bitrate for transmission at the cost ofreducing the quality of the background.
